NAME: BodyFatInfo.txt
SIZE: 184 observations, 20 variables
ARTICLE TITLE: Fitting Percentage of Body Fat to Simple Body Measurements: College Women

DESCRIPTIVE ABSTRACT:
Percentage of body fat, age, weight, height, body mass index and fourteen circumference measurements are given for 184 college women ages 18-25. Body fat was accurately determined by an underwater weighing technique which requires special equipment and training of the individuals conducting the process. Circumference measurements were made to the nearest 0.1 cm using a cloth tape in complete contact with the skin but without compression of the soft tissues. The measurement process, described somewhat incompletely below, is described in greater detail in Slack (1997) who used the standards recommended by Lohman, Roche and Martrell (1988).

SOURCES:
Lohman, T.G., Roche, A.F., Martorell, R. (1988), Anthropometric Standardization Reference Manual, Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics Books.

Siri, W.E. (1956), Gross Composition of the Body, in Advances in Biological and Medical Physics (vol. IV), editors J.H. Lawrence and C.A. Tobias, New York: Academic Press.

Slack, Jason V. (1997), Estimating Body Fat Percentage Using Circumference Measurements and Lifestyle Questionnaire Data: A Multivariate Study of 184 College Aged Females, M.S. Thesis, Department of Physical Education, Brigham Young University. An electronic copy of this thesis is available via OregonPDF in Health & Performance, https://www.oregonpdf.org/, Catalog ID: PE 3794.

VARIABLE DESCRIPTIONS:
Obs: Observation number, 1-184
Fat: Amount of body fat expressed as a percentage of total body weight, using Siri's (1956) method
Weight (kg)
Height (m)
BMI: (Body Mass Index) Weight divided by the square of Height
Age
Neck: Minimal circumference perpendicular to the long axis of the neck (cm)
Chest: Horizontal plane measurement at the sixth rib, at the end of a normal expiration (cm)
Calf: Horizontal maximal calf measurement (cm)
Biceps: Measurement with arm extended (cm)
Hips: Horizontal maximal measurement around buttocks (cm)
Waist: Horizontal minimal measurement, at the end of a normal expiration (cm)
Forearm: Maximal measurement perpendicular to long axis (cm)
PThigh: (Proximal Thigh) Horizontal measurement immediately distal to the gluteal furrow (cm)
MThigh: (Middle Thigh) Measurement midway between the midpoint of the inguinal crease and the proximal border of the patella (cm)
DThigh: (Distal Thigh) Measurement proximal to the femoral epicondyles (cm)
Wrist: Measurement perpendicular to the long axis of the forearm (cm)
Knee: Measurement at the mid-patellar level, with the knee slightly flexed (cm)
Elbow: A minimal circumference measurement with the elbow extended (cm)
Ankle: Minimal circumference measurement perpendicular to the long axis of the calf (cm)

STORY BEHIND THE DATA:
Please see the JSE Datasets article.

PEDAGOGICAL NOTES:
The dataset may be used to illustrate the various components of building a predictive model for percent body fat. While the number of cases is fairly modest, the dataset is fairly rich in terms of the number of potential predictor variables. 

SUBMITTED BY:
Roger W. Johnson
Department of Mathematics
South Dakota School of Mines & Technology
501 East St. Joseph Street
Rapid City, South Dakota 57701
roger.johnson@sdsmt.edu
